# Done
## Video Demo:  https://streamable.com/71qga6
## About project
This is my CS50x final project. I often forget to do simple errands or to do something.
The very simple goal of a to-do list is to get my tasks done; often it is a simple activity like putting your sheets back on the bed or booking my next trip. Often a list is all that is necessary to meet that simple goal.
The best way to manage a list is simply to put everything on the list as a priority to do. If it is something you had to do, and it took me a minute to get that done, it should be marked as a basic task; in this way, everything is a priority.
<br/>
<br/>

DONE is a web application that works as a To-Do list.
<br/>
The functionalities of the application are:

- Registration: Mandatory, functionalities of the application are available only if the user is registered.
- Password change: After registering, users can alter their password only if the current password is provided.
- Add: Append the new item to the ToDo list.
- Edit: After adding an item to the list, the user can edit it.
- Done: Removes the item from the list.
<br/>

## Prerequisites

What things you need to install the software and how to install them.<br/>
A *step-by-step* instructions that tell you how to get the project running.

Open your terminal and follow the instructions:

```
# Instructions are for Debian-Ubuntu Operating Systems

$ sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade
# Downloads and installs the updates for each outdated package and dependency on your system

$ sudo apt-get install python3 python3-dev
# Downloads and installs the latest version of Python 3

$ sudo apt-get install python3-pip
# Downloads and installs the PIP

$ pip3 install Flask
# Downloads and installs Flask

$ pip3 install Flask-Session
# Downloads and installs Flask-Session
# Flask-Session adds server-side session support to Flask application

$ sudo apt install sqlite3
# Downloads and installs SQLite3

$ pip3 install cs50
# Downloads and installs CS50 library for Python

$ sudo pip3 install style50
# Downloads and installs style50 for Python

$ sudo apt-get install astyle
# Downloads and installs Artistic Style

$ sudo pip install --upgrade style50
# Upgrades style50
```
<br/>


### Prerequisites - Recommendation
- [Visual Studio Code Download](https://code.visualstudio.com/#alt-downloads)
- [Visual Studio Code Documentation](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs)

[Visual Studio Code](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Visual_Studio_Code), also commonly referred to as VS Code, is a source-code editor made by Microsoft with the Electron Framework, for Windows, Linux and macOS. Features include support for debugging, syntax highlighting, intelligent code completion, snippets, code refactoring, and embedded Git.

<br/>


# Example

$ style50 *.py
Results generated by style50 v2.7.5
::::::::::::::
app.py
::::::::::::::
Looks good!
But consider adding more comments!
::::::::::::::
helpers.py
::::::::::::::
Looks good!
But consider adding more comments!
```


## Succint project breakdown per file
    - [style.css](project/static/styles.css) - CSS file defining the look-and-feel of each web page, i.e., each HTML file
- ["templates" directory](project/templates) - contains only HTML documents
    - [edit.html](project/templates/edit.html) - web page where users modify their tasks on the To-Do list
    - [error.html](project/templates/error.html) - displays the image and the text of an error which caused them to be redirected to this page
    - [index.html](project/templates/index.html) - "homepage"
    - [layout.html](project/templates/layout.html) - skeletal structure of the web page, in order to keep the code in the DRY principle
    - [login.html](project/templates/login.html) - users input their username and password
    - [password_change.html](project/templates/password_change.html) - allows the users to change their password
    - [register.html](project/templates/register.html) - page containing username field, and two password fields, so that users can confirm their password
    - [todo.html](project/templates/todo.html) - the web page where most of the web application functionalities happen, e.g. add to the list, remove from it, edit the items on the list
- [app.py](project/app.py) - Python code making all of the functionalities happen
- [done.db](project/done.db) - Relational database containing tables of users, and their To-Do lists
- [helpers.py](project/helper.py) - Ensures that user is logged in and checks for errors

